
1.What Python module is ideal to traverse through directory structures for DevOps file cleanup automation?
(1 Point)
A. glob
B. re
C. os
D. json
Reason: The os module provides functions like os.walk() to traverse directories, making it ideal for file cleanup automation.
2.How do you upload a file to S3 using Python and Boto3?(1 Point)
A. s3.upload(file)
B. s3.put(file)
C. s3_client.upload_file()
D. s3.write()
Reason: s3_client.upload_file() is the correct Boto3 method for uploading files to S3.
3.Which of the following is a correct way to define a Python function?(1 Point)
A. function myFun():
B. def myFun():
C. fn myFun():
D. define myFun()
Reason: Python functions are defined using the def keyword, e.g., def myFun():
4.Which HTTP response code confirms that your webhook was received successfully by Jenkins or GitLab?(1 Point)
A. 200
B. 403
C. 500
D. 301
Reason: HTTP 200 means OK/success, confirming the webhook was received.
5.Which DevOps tool allows triggering Python scripts as pipeline steps?(1 Point)
A. Jenkins
B. GitHub Actions
C. GitLab CI
D. All of the above
Reason: All these tools support running Python scripts as part of their pipelines.
6.In a script automating server health checks, what is the best way to run and capture output from Linux commands?
(1 Point)
A. os.system()
B. exec()
C. subprocess.run()
D. input()
Reason: subprocess.run() allows running commands and capturing their output safely.
7.Which library is used to schedule Python jobs like cron in automation?
(1 Point)
A. sched
B. subprocess
C. schedule
D. datetime
Reason: The schedule library is designed for job scheduling similar to cron.
8.You want to automate cloud resource creation using Python. Which AWS SDK do you use?(1 Point)
A. boto
B. boto3
C. cloudpy
D. aws3
Reason: boto3 is the official AWS SDK for Python.
9.Which Python module is used to manage system resources and process stats like CPU or memory?(1 Point)
A. resource
B. metrics
C. psutil
D. monitor
Reason: psutil provides functions to monitor system resources like CPU and memory.
10.What is the output of the following code?

print(type("DevOps"))(1 Point)
A. <class 'int'>
B.<class 'str'>
C. <class 'float'>
D. DevOps
Reason: type("DevOps") returns <class 'str'> because "DevOps" is a string.
11.Which keyword is used to handle exceptions in Python scripts?(1 Point)
A. handle
B. catch
C. except
D. error
Reason: The except keyword is used in try-except blocks to handle exceptions.
12.To read a tab-delimited (.tsv) server log, which Pandas function works best?(1 Point)
A) pd.read_tab()
B) pd.read_csv("file.tsv", sep="\t") 
C) pd.read_excel("file.tsv")
D) pd.read_json("file.tsv")
Reason: pd.read_csv() with sep="\t" reads tab-delimited files.
13.You are asked to monitor disk usage with Python. What’s the best approach?(1 Point)
A. psutil.disk_usage()
B. os.monitor_disk()
C. shutil.size()
D. disktools.get()
Reason: psutil.disk_usage() provides disk usage statistics.
14.Which module provides SSH functionality to connect to remote servers in Python?(1 Point)
A. socket
B. paramiko
C. sshlib
D. remoter
Reason: paramiko is the standard Python library for SSH connections.
15.Which Python construct helps retry a failed command multiple times in DevOps automation?
(1 Point)
A. while loop with try-except
B. break
C. input()
D. assert
Reason: A while loop with try-except allows retrying on failure until success or a limit.
16.A Jenkins pipeline fails due to a missing Python module. What is the first thing you should check?(1 Point)
A. OS version
B. Python version
C. pip install in the pipeline
D. Cron jobs
Reason: Ensuring pip install runs in the pipeline ensures dependencies are available.
17.What Python module sends alerts over email/SMS in DevOps scripts?(1 Point)
A. smtplib
B. twilio
C. email
D. All of the above
Reason: All these modules/libraries can be used for sending alerts via email or SMS.
18.You need to replicate shell commands like ls -l in Python. Which module best fits?
(1 Point)
A. shlex
B. commands
C. subprocess
D. shell
Reason: subprocess is used to execute shell commands from Python.
19.You need to create dynamic configuration files for deployment. Which module allows writing YAML files in Python?(1 Point)
A. pyyaml
B. yamlwriter
C. os.path
D. json
Reason: pyyaml is the standard library for reading/writing YAML files in Python.
20.Which statement best describes Python virtual environments in DevOps?(1 Point)
A. They provide GUI tools.
B. They isolate dependencies.
C. They are required for Git.
D. They are cloud backup tools.
Reason: Virtual environments isolate dependencies for different projects.
21.Which Python slicing expression returns every second character from a string s?(1 Point)
Option 1
A) s[2]
B) s[:-1]
C) s[::2] 
D) s[::-2]
Reason: s[::2] returns every second character from the string.
22.What is the best practice to make Python automation scripts OS-independent?
(1 Point)
A. Hardcode file paths
B. Use os.path or pathlib
C. Use shell commands
D. Avoid modules
Reason: os.path and pathlib handle file paths in an OS-independent way.
23.What is the best way to test Python scripts automatically in a CI/CD pipeline?(1 Point)
A. Manual execution
B. pytest
C. debugger.run()
D. print() statements
Reason: pytest is a popular framework for automated testing in Python.
24.What is the purpose of using subprocess in Python for DevOps tasks?(1 Point)
A. GUI creation
B. Database connection
C. Execute shell commands
D. JSON parsing
Reason: subprocess is used to run shell commands from Python scripts.
25.You are developing a Python tool to automate log file rotation. Which module is ideal?(1 Point)
A. logging.handlers.TimedRotatingFileHandler
B. logrotate.py
C. rotate.py
D. crontab.log
Reason: TimedRotatingFileHandler in logging.handlers automates log rotation.
26.Which Python statement is used to send a REST API GET request in a DevOps monitoring script?(1 Point)
A. urlopen()
B. requests.get()
C. open.api()
D. http.send()
Reason: requests.get() is the standard way to send GET requests in Python.
27.Your DevOps team wants alert notifications sent from Python when CPU crosses 90%. What library would you use?(1 Point)
A. slack_sdk
B. email
C. smtplib
D. Any of the above
Reason: Any of these libraries can be used to send notifications/alerts.
28.What does assert keyword do in Python unit tests?(1 Point)
A. Terminates execution
B. Logs the output
C. Validates expected vs actual values
D. Compiles code
Reason: assert checks if a condition is true, validating test results.
29.What does the with open("file.txt", "r") as f: construct do in Python?
(1 Point)
A. Runs a loop
B. Handles exceptions
C. Opens a file and automatically closes it
D. Compresses a file
Reason: with open(...) ensures the file is closed automatically after use.
30.What does df.iloc[1:4] do?(1 Point)
A) Filters rows with ID 1 and 4
B) Selects rows by label
C) Selects rows 1 to 3 by index 
D) Slices columns instead of rows
Reason: iloc[1:4] selects rows by index, from 1 up to (but not including) 4.
31.You are writing a Python script to back up log files. What is the most appropriate module for compression?
(1 Point)
A. gzip
B. tarfile
C. zipfile
D. All of the above
Reason: All these modules can be used for file compression in Python.
32.You want to execute a Python script remotely over SSH in an automated pipeline. What is the BEST tool combo?
(1 Point)
A. Python + paramiko
B. telnet
C. ftp
D. cron + print()
Reason: paramiko allows SSH connections and remote command execution in Python.
33.Which protocol is commonly used for automated network configuration (like IP assignment) in DevOps scripts?
(1 Point)
A. SMTP
B. DHCP
C. ICMP
D. FTP
Reason: DHCP is used for dynamic IP assignment and network configuration.
34.Which command allows you to create a Python virtual environment?(1 Point)
A. venv create
B. python -m venv env
C. python virtualenv
D. venv install
Reason: python -m venv env is the standard command to create a virtual environment.
35.What is the purpose of the following script block?

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()(1 Point)
A. Starts execution from this point
B. Compiles the script
C. Installs dependencies
D. Exits immediately
Reason: This block ensures the script runs only when executed directly, not when imported.
36.How do you import a module named psutil?(1 Point)
A. load psutil
B. require("psutil")
C. import psutil
D. module psutil
Reason: import psutil is the correct Python import statement.
37.Why is slicing useful when parsing log files in DevOps automation?(1 Point)
A) To modify log files in place
B) To extract portions like timestamps or error codes 
C) To add new lines
D) To change file encoding
Reason: Slicing helps extract specific parts of strings, such as timestamps or error codes.
38.Which module is commonly used for file and folder operations in Python automation scripts?(1 Point)
A. os
B. filelib
C. sys
D. pathfinder
Reason: The os module provides functions for file and directory operations.
39.You want to parse a config.yaml file using Python. Which module should you use?
(1 Point)
A. json
B. pickle
C. yaml (pyyaml)
D. cfgparse
Reason: pyyaml (imported as yaml) is the standard library for YAML parsing in Python.
40.You want to schedule a Python script to run every 30 minutes in Linux. What’s the BEST method?
(1 Point)
A. Use time.sleep()
B. Use cron
C. Use loop.run()
D. Use interval.run()
Reason: cron is the standard Linux tool for scheduling recurring tasks.
41.Which Python tool can be used for security auditing of DevOps scripts?
(1 Point)
A. bandit
B. pylint
C. black
D. tox
Reason: bandit is a security linter for Python code.
42.In a Dockerfile for a Python app, what is the correct base image to use?(1 Point)
A. ubuntu:latest
B. python:3.11
C. alpine
D. pip:latest
Reason: python:3.11 is a Python base image, suitable for Python apps.
43.What is the output of the following Python code?

print("DevOps" * 2)(1 Point)
A. DevOps DevOps
B. DevOps*2
C. DevOpsDevOps
D. Error
Reason: "DevOps" * 2 results in the string DevOpsDevOps.
44.What format does boto3 use to return most AWS API responses?(1 Point)
A. JSON
B. Dict
C. XML
D. YAML
Reason: boto3 returns responses as Python dictionaries.
45.Which Python data type is used to store key-value pairs (e.g., for config parsing)?(1 Point)
A. List
B. Set
C. Tuple
D. Dictionary
Reason: Dictionaries store key-value pairs in Python.
46.How would you handle script errors like "file not found" in automation?
(1 Point)
A. try...except FileNotFoundError
B. if file not found:
C. os.abort()
D. pass
Reason: try...except FileNotFoundError handles missing file errors gracefully.
47.You are using Python to monitor disk usage. Which module gives disk stats?
(1 Point)
A. os
B. psutil
C. resource
D. systemd
Reason: psutil provides detailed disk usage statistics.
48.You’re logging script output for DevOps auditing. Which is the preferred module?
(1 Point)
A. print()
B. os.write()
C. logging
D. traceback
Reason: The logging module is designed for robust, configurable logging.
49.You need to write a Python script to archive log files older than 7 days. Which module will be MOST appropriate?
(1 Point)
A. os
B. shutil
C. time
D. tarfile
Reason: tarfile is used to create archives (tarballs) of files in Python.
50.Which command will install Python dependencies listed in a requirements.txt file?
(1 Point)
A. python requirements.txt
B. pip install -r requirements.txt
C. apt-get requirements.txt
D. python -r requirements.txt
Reason: pip install -r requirements.txt installs all dependencies from the file.
